# Apple in 2025: The Six Colors Report Card

**来源:** [daringfireball.net](https://daringfireball.net)
**发布时间:** 2026-02-24T21:49:10Z
**链接:** https://sixcolors.com/post/2026/02/2025reportcard/

---

{'type': 'text/html', 'language': 'en', 'base': 'https://daringfireball.net/linked/', 'value': '<p>Jason Snell:</p>\n\n<blockquote>\n  <p>It’s time for our annual look back on Apple’s performance during\nthe past year, as seen through the eyes of writers, editors,\ndevelopers, podcasters, and other people who spend an awful lot of\ntime thinking about Apple. The whole idea here is to get a broad\nsense of sentiment\u2009—\u2009the “vibe in the room”\u2009—\u2009regarding the past\nyear. (And by looking at previous survey results, we can even see\nhow that sentiment has drifted over the course of an entire\ndecade.)</p>\n\n<p>This is the eleventh year that I’ve presented this survey to my\nhand-selected group. They were prompted with 14 different\nApple-related subjects, and asked to rate them on a scale from 1\n(worst) to 5 (best) and optionally provide text commentary per\ncategory.</p>\n</blockquote>\n\n<p>I still need to polish it up a bit, but per tradition, I’ll publish my own report card shortly. In the meantime, it’s always edifying to read Snell’s summary and the average grades. You’ll never guess which category Apple flunked for 2025. (Spoiler: World Impact.)</p>\n\n<p>Regarding MacOS 26 Tahoe, here are the comments from two Johns:</p>\n\n<blockquote>\n  <p>“Tahoe is the worst user interface update in the history of the\nMac. Every change is either wrongheaded, poorly executed, or both.\nThe Mac remains usable only because of Tahoe’s lack of ambition:\nit mostly alters the appearance and metrics of interface elements\nrather than making fundamental changes to the structure of the Mac\nUI. Thank goodness for that. The bad ideas embodied in Tahoe\nreveal an Apple design team that has abandoned the most basic\nprinciples of human-computer interaction.” —John Siracusa</p>\n\n<p>“Tahoe is the worst regression in the entire history of MacOS.\nThere are many reasons to prefer MacOS to any of its competition,\nbut the one that has been the most consistent since System 1 in\n1984 is the superiority of its user interface. There is nothing\nabout Tahoe’s new UI that is better than its predecessor….\nFundamental principles of computer-human interaction\u2009—\u2009principles\nthat Apple itself forged over decades\u2009—\u2009have been completely\nignored.” —John Gruber</p>\n</blockquote>\n\n<p>Siracusa and I didn’t say a word to each other while writing those comments. (If we had, I’d have switched to “human-computer interaction” from “computer-human interaction”.)</p>\n\n<div>\n<a href="https://daringfireball.net/linked/2026/02/24/apple-in-2025-the-six-colors-report-card" title="Permanent link to ‘Apple in 2025: The Six Colors Report Card’">&nbsp;★&nbsp;</a>\n</div>'}

---

*抓取时间: 2026-02-25 06:06:45*
