# Manufacturing as Maintenance

**来源:** [grantslatton.com](https://grantslatton.com)
**发布时间:** Sat, 31 Jan 2026 21:56:41 +0000
**链接:** https://grantslatton.com/manufacturing-as-maintenance

---

{'type': 'text/html', 'language': None, 'base': 'https://grantslatton.com/rss.xml', 'value': '<h1>Manufacturing as Maintenance</h1>\n<p>The maintenance spectrum has two ends.</p>\n<p>At one end, an object is lovingly maintained with effort and care through the years. A cherished blade sharpened on a whetstone every few months.</p>\n<p>At the other end, we have manufacturing: just toss the dull knife into the smelter at one end of a factory, and out the other end comes a beautiful, perfect, factory-sharp replacement.</p>\n<p>The former garners respect. And it\'s easy to see why: frequent maintenance was requisite for civilization until the Industrial Revolution. When a suit of armor took months of skilled labor to produce, you\'d better maintain it well.</p>\n<p>So our culture developed in a world where maintenance has a quasi-moral component and is nearly synonymous with virtue.</p>\n<p>My own aesthetic preference is the opposite. Maintenance is tedium. It\'s using up valuable mental real estate perpetually juggling the upkeep status of all the objects in my life.</p>\n<p>The modal reaction to this preference is mild revulsion. Our culture has inculcated in us the morality of thrifty maintenance.</p>\n<p>I propose the opposite: the amount of precious time and effort spent on maintenance is a disgusting waste of human potential.</p>\n<p>We should view the need for maintenance as a historical burden to be shrugged off, just as we\'ve shrugged off the need for most people to participate in back-breaking agriculture.</p>\n<p>The most common reason people give for preferring maintenance over manufacturing is <em>wastefulness</em>. Re-forging a knife is <em>wasteful</em>. But what\'s being wasted?</p>\n<p>The metal is not destroyed or transmuted into some lesser element. The only "waste" is the energy needed to melt my dull knife and cast it into a new, sharp one. In our industrial age, this is only a few <em>cents\'</em> worth of energy.</p>\n<p>And in our industrial age, the cheapest energy is bountiful, clean solar.</p>\n<p>Rather than spending 10 minutes sharpening a knife on a whetstone, you\'d be better off spending 10 minutes making solar panels, and then using those solar panels to melt and reforge your old knife.</p>\n<p>A market economy, of course, intermediates all this, but the thought experiment is still a useful way to show how our inherited intuitions on alleged wastefulness are wrong.</p>\n<p>There are more benefits to manufacturing as maintenance.</p>\n<p><strong>Rebirth is a cleansing fire. Rebirth is a chance to start anew. With continual re-making, we get better at making.</strong></p>\n<p>How much better would home construction be if we rebuilt every 10 years instead of every 50?</p>\n<p>We\'d have 5x the societal experience. Every homebuilder could be a master of his craft in 5 years instead of 25.</p>\n<p>Homes would never be long out of date. No knob-and-tube wiring to contend with. No lead pipes. A home built in the 2000s would have Ethernet cable running throughout. And one in the 2010s would have a WiFi mesh in the walls.</p>\n<p>Homes would transform to grow with families. A starter home in your 20s. A home for kids in your 30s, and a different one for teens in your 40s. Then another for empty-nesters in their 50s.</p>\n<p>We\'d build them much faster and cheaper. What shortcuts and simplifications can you make if you know you\'ll tear it down 10 years later? How would society change when a home costs only a few months\' salary, and could be built in a month?</p>\n<p><strong>We are headed this way</strong>.</p>\n<p>People increasingly don\'t maintain modular desktop computers whose parts can be upgraded piecemeal. They buy a brand new maintenance-free laptop every 5 years.</p>\n<p>Electric cars, too, require very little maintenance, and aren\'t likely to join the ranks of classic cars people lovingly maintain for a half-century.</p>\n<p>Homes, too, will be swept up in this.</p>\n<p>Industrial production of homes has existed for decades, but only at the low end: manufactured mobile homes designed for trailer parks or rural plots.</p>\n<p>But a few startups are succeeding at industrial production of homes. <a href="https://buildcover.com/">Cover</a>, for example, builds luxury homes in record time.</p>\n<p>Even without producing components in a factory like <em>Cover</em>, technologies such as humanoid robotics would get us there anyway. Imagine a squad of fifty humanoid robots descending on a homebuilding site, working 24/7 with inhumanly perfect coordination and plan-adherence. They\'d finish in days.</p>\n<p><strong>I\'m reminded of <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ise_Shrine">Ise Jingū</a></strong>, a Shintō shrine that is ceremonially rebuilt every 20 years.</p>\n<p>It\'s a manifestation of the concept of <em>tokowaka</em> (常若). The word literally means "ever-young". It\'s the idea that vitality is preserved with periodic renewal.</p>\n<p>The direction of industrial society is toward ubiquitous <em>tokowaka</em>. We should throw off our fetishization of maintenance and actively work towards this.</p>\n<hr />\n<p><strong>A quick postscript on pollution:</strong> modern chemistry has enabled the creation of materials that are not readily renewed with energy alone.</p>\n<p>Such products are popular in large part because they are so low-maintenance, but that chemical durability results in pollution.</p>\n<p>By embracing manufacturing-as-maintenance of products made of recyclable materials like metal and wood, we can draw people away from such polluting materials.</p>'}

---

*抓取时间: 2026-02-06 16:29:19*
