# Why Am I Doing the Thinking for You?

**来源:** [terriblesoftware.org](https://terriblesoftware.org)
**发布时间:** Mon, 02 Feb 2026 13:49:00 +0000
**链接:** https://terriblesoftware.org/2026/02/02/why-am-i-doing-the-thinking-for-you/

---

{'type': 'text/html', 'language': None, 'base': 'https://terriblesoftware.org/feed/', 'value': '<p class="wp-block-paragraph">I got a Slack message the other week, just <em>&#8220;What do you think?&#8221;</em> with a link to a Notion document.</p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">No context or indication of what this person actually believed. Just a link and a question mark.</p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">I stared at it for a minute, trying to decide if I was annoyed or just tired (both, probably).</p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">What&#8217;s this message is actually saying is: <em>&#8220;I haven&#8217;t figured this out yet and I&#8217;d like you to do the thinking for me.&#8221;</em></p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">That sounds harsh, but it&#8217;s true. When you ask someone &#8220;what do you think?&#8221; without sharing what <em>you</em> think, you&#8217;re not collaborating, but more like outsourcing? You&#8217;re taking all the work you should have done (reading <em>and understanding</em> the doc, weighing the trade-offs, forming an opinion) and dumping it on someone else&#8217;s lap.</p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">It looks like a question, but it&#8217;s more like a task assignment.</p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">And yes, I&#8217;ve done this too. We all have. It feels polite. You&#8217;re inviting input! Except that&#8217;s not really what&#8217;s going on. What&#8217;s usually going on is one of two things:</p>\n\n\n\n<ol class="wp-block-list">\n<li>You didn&#8217;t read/understand the freaking document, or&#8230;</li>\n\n\n\n<li>You did read it and have an opinion about it, but don&#8217;t want to commit to it. What if you&#8217;re wrong? What if someone more senior disagrees? What if you look like you don&#8217;t know what you&#8217;re doing? Framing it as a question feels safer. So you wrap it in a question and let someone else take the risk.</li>\n</ol>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">Both are problematic in the same way, because you&#8217;re literally creating work for someone else. Now they have to: understand the context, think through the options, make a judgment call, and put their name on it.</p>\n\n\n\n<ol class="wp-block-list"></ol>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">That&#8217;s a lot of cognitive work to offload onto someone because you didn&#8217;t want to stake a position.</p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">And it slows everything down. How many threads are open right now at your company&#8217;s Slack because of this? Everyone asking questions, everyone waiting. Dozens of replies, somehow ending with less clarity than the thread started with.</p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">Let me you show the better way.</p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph"><strong>Don&#8217;t:</strong><br /><em>&#8220;Hey, what do you think about the API versioning approach?&#8221;</em></p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph"><strong>Do:</strong><br /><em>&#8220;Been looking at this, I think we should go with REST. The team knows it, latency isn&#8217;t tight enough to justify gRPC, and GraphQL feels like overkill for three endpoints. Going to start on this Friday unless you see something I&#8217;m missing.&#8221;</em></p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">That second message has everything:</p>\n\n\n\n<ul class="wp-block-list">\n<li>A clear <strong>recommendation</strong> with reasoning</li>\n\n\n\n<li>The <strong>alternatives</strong> you considered and why you ruled them out</li>\n\n\n\n<li>A <strong>deadline</strong> that assumes approval unless someone objects</li>\n</ul>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">It transforms <em>&#8220;help me think&#8221;</em> into <em>&#8220;check my thinking.&#8221;</em> One creates work. The other respects people&#8217;s time.</p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">Some people worry this comes across as overstepping. Like they&#8217;re being presumptuous by having opinions. I used to think this too. Turns out, it&#8217;s backwards.</p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">People don&#8217;t want to do your thinking for you (what a surprise!). They want to react to something concrete. Give them a position and they can say &#8220;sounds good&#8221; in two seconds or push back with specifics. Give them a vague question and they have to do a bunch of work before they can even respond.</p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph"><a href="https://terriblesoftware.org/2025/11/25/what-actually-makes-you-senior/">Reducing ambiguity</a> is one of the most valuable things you can do on a team. And one of the simplest ways to do it is to just… say what you think. Even when you&#8217;re not sure. Even when you might be wrong.</p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">&#8220;But what if I don&#8217;t have enough context to have an opinion?&#8221;</p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">Then say that. <em>&#8220;I don&#8217;t have full visibility here, but based on what I know, I&#8217;d lean toward X, does that match what you&#8217;re seeing?&#8221;</em> Still a position, still doing some of the work, still way better than a naked question.</p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">A clear position gives people something to rally around or push back against. That&#8217;s how decisions actually get made, fast.</p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">Next time you&#8217;re about to type &#8220;what do you think?&#8221;, stop. Figure out what <em>you</em> think first. Write that instead. Add your reasoning, your alternatives, and an assumed path forward.</p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">You&#8217;re not being pushy (even in Canada), you&#8217;re doing your job.</p>\n\n\n\n<p class="wp-block-paragraph">It feels a little more exposed. A little more on the line. But that&#8217;s what moving things forward actually looks like.</p>'}

---

*抓取时间: 2026-02-06 16:29:19*
