# The Final Bottleneck

**来源:** [lucumr.pocoo.org](https://lucumr.pocoo.org)
**发布时间:** 2026-02-13T00:00:00+00:00
**链接:** https://lucumr.pocoo.org/2026/2/13/the-final-bottleneck/

---

{'type': 'text/html', 'language': None, 'base': 'https://lucumr.pocoo.org/feed.atom', 'value': '<p>Historically, writing code was slower than reviewing code.</p>\n<p>It might not have felt that way, because code reviews sat in queues until\nsomeone got around to picking it up.  But if you compare the\nactual acts themselves, creation was usually the more expensive part.  In teams\nwhere people both wrote and reviewed code, it never felt like &#8220;we should\nprobably program slower.&#8221;</p>\n<p>So when more and more people tell me they no longer know what code is in their\nown codebase, I feel like something is very wrong here and it&#8217;s time to\nreflect.</p>\n<h2>You Are Here</h2>\n<p>Software engineers often believe that <a href="https://lucumr.pocoo.org/2020/1/1/async-pressure/">if we make the bathtub\nbigger</a>, overflow disappears.  It doesn&#8217;t.\n<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenClaw">OpenClaw</a> right now has north of 2,500\npull requests open.  That&#8217;s a big bathtub.</p>\n<p>Anyone who has worked with queues knows this: if input grows faster than\nthroughput, you have an accumulating failure.  At that point, backpressure and\nload shedding are the only things that retain a system that can still operate.</p>\n<p>If you have ever been in a Starbucks overwhelmed by mobile orders, you know the\nfeeling.  The in-store experience breaks down.  You no longer know how many\norders are ahead of you.  There is no clear line, no reliable wait estimate, and\noften no real cancellation path unless you escalate and make noise.</p>\n<p>That is what many AI-adjacent open source projects feel like right now.  And\nincreasingly, that is what a lot of internal company projects feel like in\n&#8220;AI-first&#8221; engineering teams, and that&#8217;s not sustainable.  You can&#8217;t triage, you\ncan&#8217;t review, and many of the PRs cannot be merged after a certain point because\nthey are too far out of date. And the creator might have lost the motivation to\nactually get it merged.</p>\n<p>There is huge excitement about newfound delivery speed, but in private\nconversations, I keep hearing the same second sentence: people are also confused\nabout how to keep up with the pace they themselves created.</p>\n<h2>We Have Been Here Before</h2>\n<p>Humanity has been here before.  Many times over.  We already talk about the\nLuddites a lot in the context of AI, but it&#8217;s interesting to see what led up to\nit.  Mark Cartwright wrote a great <a href="https://www.worldhistory.org/article/2183/the-textile-industry-in-the-british-industrial-rev/">article about the textile\nindustry</a>\nin Britain during the industrial revolution.  At its core was a simple idea:\nwhenever a bottleneck was removed, innovation happened downstream from that.\nWeaving sped up? Yarn became the constraint. Faster spinning? Fibre needed to be\nimproved to support the new speeds until finally the demand for cotton went up\nand that had to be automated too.  We saw the same thing in shipping that led\nto modern automated ports and containerization.</p>\n<p>As software engineers we have been here too.  Assembly did not scale to larger\nengineering teams, and we had to invent higher level languages.  A lot of what\nprogramming languages and software development frameworks did was allow us\nto write code faster and to scale to larger code bases.  What it did not do up\nto this point was take away the core skill of engineering.</p>\n<p>While it&#8217;s definitely easier to write C than assembly, many of the core problems\nare the same.  Memory latency still matters, physics are still our ultimate\nbottleneck, algorithmic complexity still makes or breaks software at scale.</p>\n<h2>Giving Up?</h2>\n<p>When one part of the pipeline becomes dramatically faster, you need to throttle\ninput.  <a href="https://pi.dev/">Pi</a> is a great example of this.  PRs are auto closed\nunless people are trusted.  It takes <a href="https://x.com/badlogicgames/status/2021164603506368693">OSS\nvacations</a>.  That&#8217;s one\noption: you just throttle the inflow.  You push against your newfound powers\nuntil you can handle them.</p>\n<h2>Or Giving In</h2>\n<p>But what if the speed continues to increase?  What downstream of writing code do\nwe have to speed up?  Sure, the pull request review clearly turns into the\nbottleneck.  But it cannot really be automated.  If the machine writes the code,\nthe machine better review the code at the same time.  So what ultimately comes\nup for human review would already have passed the most critical possible review\nof the most capable machine.  What else is in the way?  If we continue with the\nfundamental belief that machines cannot be accountable, then humans need to be\nable to understand the output of the machine.  And the machine will ship\nrelentlessly.  Support tickets of customers will go straight to machines to\nimplement improvements and fixes, for other machines to review, for humans to\nrubber stamp in the morning.</p>\n<p>A lot of this sounds both unappealing and reminiscent of the textile industry.\nThe individual weaver no longer carried responsibility for a bad piece of cloth.\nIf it was bad, it became the responsibility of the factory as a whole and it was\njust replaced outright.  As we&#8217;re entering the phase of single-use plastic\nsoftware, we might be moving the whole layer of responsibility elsewhere.</p>\n<h2>I Am The Bottleneck</h2>\n<p>But to me it still feels different.  Maybe that&#8217;s because my lowly brain can&#8217;t\ncomprehend the change we are going through, and future generations will just\nlaugh about our challenges.  It feels different to me, because what I see taking\nplace in some Open Source projects, in some companies and teams feels deeply\nwrong and unsustainable.  Even Steve Yegge himself now <a href="https://steve-yegge.medium.com/the-ai-vampire-eda6e4f07163">casts\ndoubts</a> about the\nsustainability of the ever-increasing pace of code creation.</p>\n<p>So what if we need to give in?  What if we need to pave the way for this new\ntype of engineering to become the standard?  What affordances will we have to\ncreate to make it work?  I for one do not know.  I&#8217;m looking at this with\nfascination and bewilderment and trying to make sense of it.</p>\n<p>Because it is not the final bottleneck.  We will find ways to take\nresponsibility for what we ship, because society will demand it.  Non-sentient\nmachines will never be able to carry responsibility, and it looks like we will\nneed to deal with this problem before machines achieve this status.\nRegardless of how <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moltbook">bizarre they appear to\nact</a> already.</p>\n<p><a href="https://x.com/thorstenball/status/2022310010391302259">I too am the bottleneck\nnow</a>.  But you know what?\nTwo years ago, I too was the bottleneck.  I was the bottleneck all along.  The\nmachine did not really change that.  And for as long as I carry responsibilities\nand am accountable, this will remain true.  If we manage to push accountability\nupwards, it might change, but so far, how that would happen is not clear.</p>'}

---

*抓取时间: 2026-02-15 00:03:08*
